and those invitations are for Vacation Bible School
and also for Friend Day, and one side of them is for VBS,
one side is for Friend Day, and so I wanna encourage you
to take some of those, most of them will be stapled
to the door hangers that we're distributing,
but we did leave a stack of those out,
maybe you have somebody that you wanna invite
to Vacation Bible School or to Friend Day,
and those are available in the back.
The gospel is not on them, typically we've been printing
everything with the gospel on one side
and then whatever the invitation is on the other,
but since we had two invitations, one on each side
did not have space for that, but again,
you can keep it with a gospel track,
be able to pass it out.
Friend Day will be on August the 11th,
the Sunday after Vacation Bible School,
and so we're looking forward to the opportunity
and I wanna make sure that you know
that those are available for you to take.
Acts chapter 24 this evening, Acts chapter number 24,
and be looking at a passage of scripture
before we get into the text, I wanna remind you
of what we've done here over the last six months.
Over the last six months, starting on the first Wednesday
of January of this calendar year and ending last Wednesday,
the last Wednesday of June, we spent those six months
examining 27 verses of scripture.
Those 27 verses of scripture were found
in 1 Thessalonians 5 and in 2 Thessalonians chapter 3.
As we examine those portions of scripture,
those 27 verses of scripture, we find that those verses
of scripture give instruction for how a child of God
should behave if they want to walk worthy and please God.
I believe this evening that if I were to come
and ask each of you individually, do you want to walk worthy,
do you want to please God with your life,
I think tonight that all of you would say yes.
I desire to walk worthy, I desire to please God
with my life, the problem is that just having a desire
really isn't enough and we find that as we've studied
through those portions of scripture
and even in recent messages this Sunday morning,
we stressed the importance of applying biblical principles
in our lives, developing biblical perspective.
So how is it that we take the Bible truth
and apply that truth in my life, in your life,
how is it that we can walk worthy and please God?
And we find this evening it's not enough
to simply read the Bible, it's not enough
to simply hear the Bible, it's not even enough
to just quote the Bible, the reality is that we must apply
the truth of God's word in our lives.
And I'm thankful this evening that the Bible
has been given to us, but we do find that the Bible,
it is not a book of suggestions, amen.
Do you agree with that tonight?
It's not a book of suggestions, we find that God's
not suggesting that here's a better path, a better way,
no, God is giving us the way, he's providing for us
not a list of suggestions that we can come
and say well I like that but I don't really like that,
it's not for us to take some and leave some,
it's not a buffet type of a situation.
And we find that God has given us his word
and it is imperative that we accept all of the Bible.
Not just the parts that we might say well I like that,
I like how that kinda, I can fit that in my life,
no, all of scripture, we rejoice with rehearsing verses
like 2 Timothy 3 and verse number 16 when the Bible says
all scripture is given by inspiration of God
and we rejoice in the fact that that word all is there
because he doesn't just say scripture is given
by inspiration but he says all scripture
is given by inspiration of God and so we can rejoice
in that, we look over in the book of Psalms
and the book of Proverbs and we read passages of scripture
in both of those books that deal with the subject matter
of preservation and how God has providentially
preserved his word and we find that the book of Proverbs
tells us that every word of God is pure, every word.
And I'm thankful for every word of God,
I'm thankful that God gave us exactly what he knew
that we needed.
This evening as we kinda conclude this six months
of Bible study of walk worthy, please God,
I've come to Acts chapter 24 so that we can look
at a passage of scripture and I'm gonna deal
with this subject tonight, I've titled the lesson
the totality of scripture, the totality of scripture.
I'm thankful that God has given us the Bible
and we must believe every word from Genesis 1-1
to Revelation 22-21, the entirety,
the totality of scripture.
Here in Acts chapter 24 we're gonna jump right
into the middle of a passage and so let me just briefly
provide you with the backdrop if you will,
the setting for this portion of scripture
for God has provided each of us this evening
as we look at Acts 24 with the record
of Paul standing before Felix.
We find that the accusers are gathered,
we find here in this text of scripture
that there are these according to verse two
that have come to accuse him, they say it again
at the end of verse number eight, whereof we accuse him.
So the accusers are gathered, the accusation is laid out,
you find it in verse five and six, the accusation
that has brought the charge if you will against Paul
but we find that Paul after hearing these opening arguments
if you will, as he's standing there to give defense
before Felix, we find that Paul makes
an interesting statement, he says at the end
of verse number 10, I do the more cheerfully answer
for myself, the apostle Paul was so thankful
that he had an opportunity to give an answer.
The accusers were there, the accusation was laid out
but Paul says I'm rejoicing because I get
to answer for myself, well within his answer,
Paul reveals a truth that is important
for each of us tonight especially with regard
to what we've dealt with over these last six months
of walk worthy, please God.
We've looked at these 27 verses of scripture,
we've dealt with the principles that are given
to God's people, the church at Thessalonica
being the original recipients but every local church
from that time until now that they have
the preserved word of God and God says
here's my instruction, here's the truth
on how you can walk worthy and please me.
And so this evening as we look at this text of scripture
I specifically want to draw your attention
to verses 14 through 16 as we look at this truth
that the apostle Paul reveals within the context
of his answer that he has the opportunity to give,
here's what he says, but this I confess unto thee
that after the way which they call heresy
so worship I the God of my fathers.
Note, believing all things which are written
in the law and in the prophets
and have hope toward God which they themselves
also allow that there shall be a resurrection
of the dead both of the just and unjust, verse 16
and herein do I exercise myself
to have always a conscience void of offense
toward God and toward men.
As we look at these few verses of scripture
within the greater context of Paul's answer
to these accusers we find that Paul is going to reveal
if you're taking notes this evening,
number one Paul reveals what he believes.
He says in verse number 14 as he's standing there
of course in verse number 13 he says they can't prove
the things that they accuse me of
but then he makes this confession, he says listen
though they've accused me of these things
if you go back in verse five for we have found this man
a pestilent fellow, a mover of sedition
among all the Jews throughout the world
and a ringleader to the sect of the Nazarenes
who also hath gone about to profane the temple
whom we took and would have judged according to our law.
Those were false accusations, that was not true
but they were accusing the apostle Paul
primarily because they hated him
and they hated him because of what he stood for
and the message that he preached, really they hated God.
Remember Jesus said marvel not if they hate you
for they hated me before they're gonna hate you.
He tells them that in John and we find that here
the apostle Paul deals with these accusations,
he says listen they can't prove those things
but then he makes a confession,
he reveals what it is that he believes
and he says this in verse number 14,
he says but this I confess unto thee
that after the way which they call heresy
so worship I the God of my fathers
but I really wanna focus your attention
on the end of verse number 14
for Paul says believing how many things?
All things, believing all things
which are written in the law and in the prophets.
Now that terminology in the law and in the prophets
what does that refer to?
Well it refers to the Old Testament,
it refers to the Bible,
it refers to what Paul had at that time in his life.
Paul of course would be used of the Lord to.
be the human penman for much of the New Testament,
but we find that Paul, when he refers to here
in verse number 14, when he says that I believe all things
which are written in the law and in the prophets,
we find that Paul is looking back to the Old Testament,
to the holy scriptures that he refers to
when he speaks to Timothy and says that from a child
thou hast known the holy scriptures
which are able to make thee wise unto salvation.
It's the parchments that Paul talks about
in 2 Timothy chapter number four when he says,
hey, bring me these things, but especially the parchments.
He's talking about the Old Testament text.
See, this evening we find,
we can look in the book of Romans,
we can look in 1 Corinthians,
and we can find that the apostle Paul,
he said this in those two books
with regard to the Old Testament,
that it's written for our learning
and it's written for our admonition.
And so Paul understood the purpose of the Old Testament
and he understood, as we say here,
and he stands before Felix, he says I believe all things
which are written in the law and in the prophets.
See, all things means all things.
Amen, you can't get around it.
And we find that when Paul makes this statement,
this declaration as he's standing before Felix
and giving this answer, which by the way, again, he's happy.
He's rejoicing that he has an opportunity
to answer for himself.
And he says, those things aren't true that they said,
but here's what's true, I believe all the Bible.
Now I like that.
And he stands up with boldness.
He stands there and he says, I believe all of it.
Now, there were many things that even the accusers
did not believe about from the law and the prophets.
See, they didn't believe that Jesus was the Messiah.
They didn't believe.
See, Paul took and he gave truth.
We could look back, look at chapter 17,
just turn back a few pages, if you will.
And notice what Paul does.
In Acts chapter 17, he arrives in Thessalonica
and this was his manner.
In fact, it tells us that in verse number two.
So he arrives in Thessalonica according to verse number one.
Notice in verse two of Acts 17 and Paul as his manner was,
this was how when he got into a new city,
when he got into a new place is what he did.
This was his approach to ministry.
The Bible says that he went in unto them
and three Sabbath days reasoned with them out of what?
Out of the scriptures.
What's the scriptures?
Well, it's the same thing that we're looking at here
in chapter 24 when he says the law and the prophets.
Really those two terms, they're referring to the same thing.
They're referring to the Old Testament.
And he says that he reasoned with them
out of the scriptures.
By the way, these religious leaders,
they would hold the scriptures and they would act like
the scriptures were important.
Right, that's what they would pretend
that the scriptures were important.
Today, some of the very zealous Jewish people,
they will have the Old Testament
and they'll act like they're very concerned about it.
But the reality is that Paul says,
I'm gonna take those scriptures.
And notice what he does in verse number three,
opening and alleging that Christ must needs have suffered
and risen again from the dead and that this Jesus
whom I preach unto you is Christ.
Hallelujah.
You know what he used?
He used the Old Testament.
You can use the Old Testament to lead somebody to Christ.
So often, well, I don't believe the New Testament.
And then you got a bunch of New Testament believers,
quote unquote, if I could use that terminology this evening,
and I think you know what I mean by that,
that say something like this,
I don't really need the Old Testament
because I'm not under the law anymore.
Both are wrong.
The people that say we don't believe the New Testament,
we don't accept the New Testament,
we're just Old Testament, they're wrong.
Because we find that the New Testament
is part of the canon of scripture.
The New Testament believers that say,
hey, I'm a New Testament believer,
I don't need the Old Testament.
I can just ignore it.
You're wrong.
Paul says, I believe all.
All of what?
Well, all that is written, notice what he says,
in the law and in the prophets.
Does that mean that he believed that God would judge sin?
Yeah.
Does it mean that he believed that God had a plan for Israel?
Did it mean that he, I mean, you just go through the list.
I mean, he believed all.
Now this evening, I ask the question of myself,
I ask you this evening as well,
could we really stand and say,
I believe all things that are written in this book.
I believe every single verse.
I believe it.
By faith, I believe it.
Could we say that?
I think some people might say,
well, I believe most of it.
Well, which parts don't you believe?
Which parts are not important?
I sat at a table probably at this point,
17 years ago, and I sat at a table
with a group of people,
and one of those individuals that was sitting at a table,
they made this statement in my presence,
and they said this, well, you know,
I'm a New Testament believer.
I don't need the Old Testament.
It's just not for me.
And I said, really?
Really?
Began to challenge them on that perspective.
See, tonight, we need the Old Testament.
The Old Testament and the New Testament.
See, if you have the new without the old,
you're lacking, you're wanting, you're saying,
what is, think about what Hebrews says
in Hebrews chapter number 10.
It talks about the law being a shadow
of good things to come.
You know, if you read the book of Hebrews
without the Old Testament,
you're gonna have no idea what's going on.
Really, honestly.
You're not gonna have a clue.
You start reading Hebrews, and you're like,
what is going on?
Because so much of that goes back to the Old Testament
and shows how that Christ is better, he's superior,
but it doesn't mean that we are not going to benefit
from the things that are written in the Old Testament.
And so Paul says, I believe.
So he makes, he reveals in this confession, if you will,
as he's standing on trial, and he's standing there,
and the accusers, they bring these accusations,
says, nope, that's not true,
but let me tell you what's true.
I worship God after the way which they call heresy,
and I believe everything.
I believe all things which are written in the law
and in the prophets.
And then he says this, and have hope toward God,
which they themselves also allow,
that there shall be a resurrection of the dead,
both of the just and the unjust.
See, we believe that this evening.
I'm looking forward to the resurrection, aren't you?
I mean, when we understand the truth of what that means,
Christ is the first fruits, 1 Corinthians 15,
and what a joy and a blessing that is
that we understand that.
We understand that the Bible says
that Christ shall rise first,
and we as believers often think about
the resurrection of the just,
but understand the resurrection of the unjust as well.
The Bible says in Revelation chapter number 20
that the dead, small and great, stood before God.
And so we find here that Paul says, here's what I believe,
and what I believe is the result
of what God has given to us in this book.
Do you understand this evening
that Paul did not have the originals?
He didn't have the originals.
He had copies of copies of copies of copies, right?
And so he didn't have the originals,
but it didn't seem to bother him
that he didn't have the originals.
You have some people today running around,
well, I don't have the originals,
and so how do I know what?
Well, because God, who transcends time,
said he would preserve it,
and I just believe that he did.
By the way, that's believing all
that's written in the law and the prophets
because God said he would preserve it.
But then we find in verse number 16,
a second thought that's revealed to us here.
We find in verse number 14 and 15
that Paul reveals what he believes,
but in verse number 16, Paul reveals how he behaves.
You've often heard me say
that what I believe will impact how I behave.
I've often said that how I behave reveals what I believe,
but notice the impact that this truth had
on the apostle Paul's life.
See, when he said in verse 14 and 15,
specifically at the end of verse 14,
that I believe all things
which are written in the law and the prophets,
the reality is that what he believed
had to have an impact on his behavior.
What you believe tonight has to impact your behavior.
See, we believe that fire is hot.
So therefore, we don't stick our hand in fire, right?
Because we believe.
Now, have you ever had a little kid
that doesn't know that fire's hot?
And what do they want to do?
They want to go touch it.
They want to go put their hand in.
What do you do as a parent?
No, no, no.
And eventually, if they are determined enough,
they touch something that's hot
and then they learn, as we often say, the hard way, right?
Listen, I'd rather not have to learn the hard way.
What about you?
I don't like learning the hard way.
Now, the reality is sometimes we all learn the hard way,
but I'd rather not have to learn the hard way.
And we find here that Paul says,
I believe all that's written.
Therefore, what I believe is gonna impact how I behave.
So what does he say in verse 16?
Notice it says, and herein do I exercise myself
Now, let me just pause there just for a moment
because this is very interesting how Paul words this.
When he says, I exercise myself,
that literally means to labor, to strive.
We know what exercise is.
And we find that he's laboring, he's striving for something.
And what is that something?
Because of what he believes, he says,
here's how it's impact how I behave.
And herein, do I exercise myself,
notice what he says, to have, how often?
Always, to have always a conscience
void of offense toward God and toward men.
Now, that's a great impact that God's word had
in Paul's life.
Paul said, because I believe everything that I've read,
because I believe that God is a holy God,
because I believe that God said
that he would bless those that obey
and that there would be consequences,
many times adversity for those that disobey.
Listen, the Old Testament says
that the way of the transgressor is hard.
The Old Testament says that he that covereth his sins
shall not prosper.
We find that there are plenty of truths
that Paul could look to.
You look at the book of Isaiah, the book of Jeremiah,
where God is pleading with his people
because of their sin, because of their wickedness,
and he says, just come back, just return to me.
But you would not, you would not hearken,
you would not listen, and therefore judgment will come.
Jeremiah is preaching a message of judgment
on the eve of Babylonian captivity.
It came to pass, why?
Because the people would not hear.
Paul believed all of that.
And so in believing all of that
and understanding what God has revealed
in the Old Testament,
Paul says, here is how that impacts my life,
here's how that impacts my behavior,
here's what I do, I exercise myself.
I am laboring, I am striving, I am working.
Get the picture in your mind of a workout
where you're laboring, I mean, you're working hard,
and Paul says, that's what I'm doing.
That's the word that he uses to describe
the impact that his belief has had on his behavior.
I am laboring, I am exercising myself to do what, Paul?
To have always, not most times, not some of the times,
but to have always a conscience void of offense
toward God and toward men.
Now, I want you to think about this just for a moment,
because we see this phraseology
when we understand that Paul says that he has this desire
to have a conscience that is void of offense.
Now, obviously, you've heard some
that have had this terminology
where you may say of someone,
or they've even said of maybe someone else
or of themselves, that they had a guilty conscience.
You ever hear that terminology?
And maybe you've used that terminology at some point.
Well, Paul says, listen, I wanna have a conscience
that is void of offense, that there's nothing.
It reminds me of what the songwriter said
when the songwriter said,
nothing between my soul and my Savior.
Not just a few things between my soul and my Savior.
No, I want there to be nothing
between my soul and my Savior.
I wanna have a conscience that is void of offense.
And so, Paul says this is what his desire was.
We've used the terminology in the book of 1 Timothy.
We've looked at it already
as we've studied it on Sunday mornings,
where the Bible talks about having a pure conscience.
A pure conscience.
But we find that the Bible also talks about individuals
that have a seared conscience.
We find here in chapter 23 in the book of Acts,
if you go back just a little bit earlier,
this is when Paul is standing there
before the religious Jewish leaders,
the Sanhedrin, that body, and he's standing there,
and it says in verse number one of chapter 23,
and Paul earnestly beholding the council said,
men and brethren, I have lived in all good conscience
before God until this day.
Isn't that a great statement that he could make?
Why is it that Paul could make that statement in chapter 23
in verse number one as he stands before the Sanhedrin
that he can say I have lived in all good conscience
before God until this day?
Well, he gives further revelation
when he stands before Felix
because he was exercising himself
to have always a conscience void of offense toward God.
So therefore, even though the trial before the Sanhedrin
took place prior to the trial before Felix,
if we're to look at it in a chronological order,
the truth of verse number 16 was not something
that just came up when he was standing before Felix.
No, this was how Paul lived his life.
He lived daily, he exercised himself
to have always a conscience that was void of offense
toward God, but also toward men, toward men.
And we find here that as Paul is revealing in verse 16,
this great truth to us, we have to acknowledge this evening
that this is the result of what he believed to be true
of God's word.
And so when we come to the Bible,
when we look at the scripture,
when we've studied for these last six months,
these 27 verses of scripture,
and we've studied through those again,
they're not just a list of suggestions.
They're not just a, hey, if you like it, take it,
add this, add that.
No, we talked about on Sunday morning
the importance of a biblical worldview,
not syncretism, not taking some from Christianity
and some from somewhere else.
No, here's what God said in his word,
and I'm gonna believe all of it,
the total, the totality of scripture.
This evening, it will impact how we behave.
It absolutely will have an impact on how we behave.
Our behavior, again, the flip side of the coin,
will reveal what we really believe.
See, if Paul was running around
doing some of what he was accused of in verses five and six,
could he truly say that he believed all things
that were written in the law and in the prophets?
Is it the case that there are some today
that their behavior really does not align with their belief
or what they claim to believe?
See, tonight, the evidence in the life of Paul
is clear that he truly believed all.
See, I believe that God is sitting on his throne tonight.
I believe that.
You believe that he's sitting on his throne tonight?
I believe that God is in complete control.
He has all power.
I believe that God knows everything.
I believe that he knows your thoughts and my thoughts.
I believe that God alone tries the heart.
I believe that my heart and your heart is wicked.
Amen?
The heart is deceitful.
Listen, you ever hear somebody just follow your heart?
You ever hear somebody say that?
That's against scripture.
Proverbs says you're a fool if you follow your heart.
Look, that's not the scripture.
The Bible tells us that the heart is deceitful
above all things and desperately wicked.
Who can know it?
The Lord tries the heart.
Listen, I believe that tonight.
I believe tonight that God is concerned
about godliness and holiness,
and I believe tonight that God is serious
about these things, and I believe that we have a God
that we can please or we can disappoint.
I believe that tonight.
I believe that God, listen, I'm thankful that he loves me
with an unconditional love, with an everlasting love.
I'm thankful tonight that I'm going to heaven
and I'm not talking about living this way
and behaving a certain way so that I can keep my salvation
and it's not possible.
I've dealt with that so many times over the years.
The reality is that if I could lose it, I would have,
and so would you.
I'm kept by the power of God.
I believe that's what God says in his word.
But there is behavior that pleases God.
And there is behavior that disappoints God.
In fact, look in First Corinthians.
We'll finish up here this evening.
Look what the Bible says in First Corinthians.
We won't read the entirety of the passage for sake of time.
I'll read one verse of Scripture.
You can go back and read the entirety of the chapter
and see the behavior that was taking place
that caused God to say what he did.
In First Corinthians 10 and verse number five,
the Bible says, but with many of them,
I hear the pages, verse five, First Corinthians 10, five.
But with many of them, God was not well pleased.
How many times have you heard somebody say
that they desire to hear Jesus say,
well done, thou good and faithful servant.
Have you heard somebody say that?
You've heard people make that statement.
I've heard evangelists that have been here in our church.
I've made the statement.
I've heard many people over the years say
that their desire is to hear the Lord say,
well done, thou.
good and faithful servant. Do you know this evening that's not going to happen by accident?
It's not going to happen by chance. Do you know tonight there is going to be a bema seat,
a judgment seat of Christ? There will be crowns. There are five of them in the New Testament
that you can read of and study. There will be crowns. Now those crowns are not for us
to glory in. They're not for us to walk around in glory and say, look at the crowns that
I received. No, because according to the book of Revelation, those crowns are going to be
cast at the feet of the Lord at the throne. And so we understand, but the reality this
evening is that God is concerned with how we behave. Our behavior matters to God. If
you look at the book of Ephesians, the six chapters that are contained therein, you find
that the first three chapters clearly deal with our position in Christ. By the way, I'm
so thankful that it's so concrete, our position in Christ. I mean, if you're saved this evening,
I mean, it is absolutely, we are secure and hallelujah, our position in Christ. But you
know that after taking three chapters of the book of Ephesians to explain and to nail down
our position in Christ, he then takes three chapters to explain how we should then behave
as people of God. Because you're saved, walk. As soon as you start chapter 4, you see walk.
You see it repeated throughout chapters 4, 5, and 6, how we are to walk, how we are to
behave. God is concerned. God cares how we behave. This evening, we've spent those six
months looking at all of these principles from 1 Thessalonians 5 and 2 Thessalonians
3. The question really tonight is do we believe all of it? Do we believe all 27 of those verses?
I mean, I understand we're talking about believing the whole Bible, but I mean specifically if
we can make an application to just the last six months of walk worthy, please God. Do
we believe all of it? Do we say, you know what? Those principles need to be applied
in my life. What I believe that God gave as instruction, he intends for it to be applied.
The instruction is not given just so that it can be in a book, filling up pages. No,
the instruction is given so that it would be applied. This evening, the totality of
Scripture, Paul says, believing all that is written in the law and in the prophets. And
therefore, here's what I do. I exercise myself for what purpose? That I might have a conscience
that is always void of offense toward God and toward men. Praise the Lord for the example
of the Apostle Paul. This evening, we too must stand up and say, I believe the whole
book. I believe every verse. And I'm going to apply the truth in my life because I want
to walk worthy and please God. Let's pray together. Father, we love you tonight. We
thank you for loving us. And I pray, Lord, that you would help each of us tonight to
be doers of the word and not hearers only. I pray, Father, that you would help each of
us this evening to determine that we will believe all. Lord, that we will not leave
any portion of your word out, that we will not ignore the Old Testament, that we will
seek to learn what you have given to us for our learning, for our admonition. God, you
would help us as we read and study and hear preached your word, that we would apply, that
we would truly allow the principles of your word to transform our behavior, that we would
live and behave in such a way that you would be pleased, that it could truly be said of
us that we walk worthy, that we please God. I pray, Lord, that you would bless the next
portion of our service as we have opportunity to pray together corporately. We thank you
for the ministry of prayer, the privilege of prayer, the power in prayer. I pray, Lord,
that you would work as only you can and we'll thank you for it. In Christ's name we pray.
Amen. Does anyone need a prayer book?